feat: addition of the CORS section (#145)
nodeshift/nodejs-reference-architecture: docs/development/cors.md

# Cross origin resource sharing (CORS)

Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) is a mechanism that uses additional HTTP headers to tell the browser to let a web application running at one origin(domain) have permission to access selected resources from a server at a different origin. A web application makes a cross-origin HTTP request when it requests a resource that has a different origin (domain, protocol, and port) than its own origin.

In other words, CORS is a browser security feature that restricts cross-origin HTTP requests with other servers and specifies which domains access your resources.

> CORS works by adding new HTTP headers that let servers describe which origins are permitted to read that information from a web browser.  For HTTP requests other than GET and POST, the CORS specification mandates that browers "preflight" the request with an HTTP OPTIONS method to check which methods are supported by the server.  Upon "approval" from the server, the request can be made.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CORS works by adding new HTTP headers that let servers describe which origins are permitted to read that information from a web browser.  For HTTP requests other than GET and POST, the CORS specification mandates that browsers send a "preflight" request with an HTTP OPTIONS method to check which methods are supported by the server.  Upon "approval" from the server, the request can be made.
```

## Simple Requests

> Requests that don't trigger a CORS preflight are know as simple requests.  A simple request can be either a GET or a POST.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Requests that don't trigger a CORS preflight request are know as simple requests.  A simple request can be either a GET or a POST.
```

Host: bar.other
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10.14; rv:71.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/71.0
Accept: text/html,application/xhtml+xml,application/xml;q=0.9,*/*;q=0.8
Accept-Language: en-us,en;q=0.5
Accept-Encoding: gzip,deflate
Connection: keep-alive
Origin: https://foo.example
```

The request header of note is Origin, which shows that the invocation is coming from https://foo.example.

The server might respond like this:

```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 01 Dec 2008 00:23:53 GMT
Server: Apache/2
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Keep-Alive: timeout=2, max=100
Connection: Keep-Alive
Transfer-Encoding: chunked
Content-Type: application/xml

[…XML Data…]
```

In response, the server returns an **Access-Control-Allow-Origin** header with `Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *` , which means that the resource can be accessed by any origin.

This pattern of the **Origin** and **Access-Control-Allow-Origin** headers is the simplest use of the access control protocol.  If the resource owners at https://bar.other wished to restrict access to the resource to requests only from https://foo.example, they could send `Access-Control-Allow-Origin: https://foo.example`

> ## Preflighted requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Preflight requests
```

Unlike simple requests, for "preflighted" requests the browser first sends an HTTP request using the OPTIONS method to the resource on the other origin, in order to determine if the actual request is safe to send. Such cross-origin requests are preflighted since they may have implications for user data.

## Recommended Components

[cors](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cors) is a node.js package for providing a Connect/Express middleware that can be used to enable CORS with various options.

## Guidance

### Reasons to enable CORS

> By default, browers assume that your backend server doesn't want to share its resources with a front-end that it doesn't know about.  However, there are certain situations where your backend might want to be accessible to a front-end application, like a website, CORS should be enabled.  List below are some situations, where you might want to make sure CORS is enabled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, browsers assume that your backend server doesn't want to share its resources with a front-end that it doesn't know about.  However, there are certain situations where your backend might want to be accessible to a front-end application, like a website, CORS should be enabled.  Listed below are some situations, where you might want to make sure CORS is enabled.
```
